# DotVVM Documentation

This repository contains the [DotVVM documentation](https://www.dotvvm.com/docs). If you find any problems, mistakes or inaccuracies, please go ahead and submit a pull request.

<br />

## Contributions

Currently, we don't have any tool to preview changes made to the documentation. Just edit some files, or create new documentation pages or control samples, and submit the pull request. We'll review and finish it ourselves before it gets published.

Please, always do your changes against the `latest` branch. We'll merge the changes in all other branches where they should appear. 

<br />

## File Structure

The `menu.xml` file defines the structure of the left menu. The `Pages` directory contains all tutorial pages.

The `Controls` section contains everything that is used to generate the control reference. Currently, there are two categories of controls - `builtin` for DotVVM controls built in the framework itself, and `bootstrap` for our commercial controls.

Each control category contains two files - `doc.xml` which is documentation XML file and `metadata.json` file which is generated by our internal tool and contains a list of controls and all their properties with all information we need to render the control table.

Then, each control has its own folder, which contains the `control.md` file which describes the control. Optionally, there is the `output.md` file, which describes HTML rendered by the control. 

Each control can have one or more samples which are placed in subfolders named `sample1`, `sample2` etc. Each subfolder must contain the `sample.md` file with description of the sample. Then, there is a `sample.json` file with list of all files that should be displayed as part of the sample.
