Pages/commercial-business-pack-install.md, before:

# Installing DotVVM Business Pack

To use the [Business Pack](/landing/business-pack) controls, you have use the [DotVVM Private Nuget Feed](/docs/tutorials/commercial-dotvvm-private-nuget-feed/{branch}).

1. Install the `DotVVM.BusinessPack` package from the DotVVM Private Nuget Feed.

2. Open your implementation of `IDotvvmServiceConfigurator` (typically at `DotvvmStartup.cs` file) and add the following line at the beginning of the `ConfigureService` method.

```CSHARP
   public void ConfigureServices(IDotvvmServiceCollection options)
   {
        options.AddBusinessPack();
   }
``` 

This will register all Business Pack controls under the `<bp:*` tag prefix, and it also registers several Business Pack resources. 

<br />

## Theme Editor

**DotVVM Business Pack** comes with a default theme which is built-in the Nuget package. 

You can get more themes, or craft your own, in the [Business Pack Theme Editor](/docs/tutorials/commercial-business-pack-theme-editor/{branch}). 

<br />

## Limitations

The current version of [DotVVM Business Pack](/landing/business-pack) uses **jQuery 2.1.1** or newer.

Commit message:

BusinessPack - added "still preview version fot dotvvm 2.0" note

Pages/commercial-business-pack-install.md, after:

# Installing DotVVM Business Pack

To use the [Business Pack](/landing/business-pack) controls, you have use the [DotVVM Private Nuget Feed](/docs/tutorials/commercial-dotvvm-private-nuget-feed/{branch}).

1. Install the `DotVVM.BusinessPack` package from the DotVVM Private Nuget Feed.

2. Open your implementation of `IDotvvmServiceConfigurator` (typically at `DotvvmStartup.cs` file) and add the following line at the beginning of the `ConfigureService` method.

```CSHARP
   public void ConfigureServices(IDotvvmServiceCollection options)
   {
        options.AddBusinessPack();
   }
``` 

This will register all Business Pack controls under the `<bp:*` tag prefix, and it also registers several Business Pack resources. 

> BusinessPack for DotVVM 2.0 is still a preview. When you search for Dotvvm.BusinessPack package, please make sure results includes preview versions.
<br />


## Theme Editor

**DotVVM Business Pack** comes with a default theme which is built-in the Nuget package. 

You can get more themes, or craft your own, in the [Business Pack Theme Editor](/docs/tutorials/commercial-business-pack-theme-editor/{branch}). 

<br />

## Limitations

The current version of [DotVVM Business Pack](/landing/business-pack) uses **jQuery 2.1.1** or newer.
